Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this lecture we are going to talk about the dot operator which allows us to access functions of an
F string and in order to do this.
It's very straightforward.
Let's have a look at it now and then I will challenge you to do a check.
So let's just go to where just under this clear screen here.
So we're talking about on impulse.
And I've also noticed this white space down here that's completely unnecessary.
So we should get rid of that as well.
So here on line 22 if we were to have a look at let's save a hidden word let's do that.
So if we have a hidden word and impress the full stop or period key we get a list of a series of functions
that we can access and then you will see quite a few options and towards the bottom we have to lower
and to upper they're going to come in use later on as well.
But the one we're looking for to get the length of our hidden word so we can check it is L E N Len and
to finish it off.
We're going to have to make sure we have our parentheses because we're calling a function and if we
hover over we can see that it's getting the length of our string incredibly useful to hover over things
if you want to know more details and importantly what we can see here is the type that this function
is returning is an integer that be quite important in the next lecture.
Now armed with this it's time for your challenge.
Okay see your challenge is to compare the hidden word to the inputs so add a check that the number of
letters that the player types.
That is the inputs is the same as the hidden word.
So we already have an if statement seeing whether the hidden word is right or not.
But let's also check that the number of letters the player types is correct as well.
Now this will create a nested IF statement.
So the if statement you're about to type will exist in the else of the current if statements and a little
tip to help you forward when you we're talking about if two things are equal to one another will use
the double equal sign.
You can also say if it's not equal to with an exclamation mark and an equal size.
So if you want to say if this is not the same as this then do that.
That is how you'd format your code.
So go ahead pause video now and give it a go OK.
Everybody welcome back.
Let's go ahead and compare the length of our hidden word and our inputs in word Okay so the first thing
I'm going to do here is just remove this line of code that we were typing and we're going to be down
here in the else statement.
Somebody typing.
If and then press tab it will also fill the rest.
So what we want to assess here is whether our inputs or rather the length of our inputs its capital
l remember that.
Now do we want to say if it's equal to or it's not equal to.
Let's let's run through it.
If it is equal to the length that we're just going to continue so that's not a valid check.
What we're really checking here is whether or not it's not equal to.
So not equal.
So the hidden word then we need to do something about it.
Spell hidden word correctly dots length.
There we go.
So if the input length and the hidden word length are not equal to one another we're going to do something.
So here we could print line and say because we're saying something we need text macro so we can say
here the hidden word is fork characters long.
Try again.
Let's save that and see what happens.
Oh I've forgotten semicolon at the end.
They're rushing to check it.
I didn't bother to finish off my coat so let's make sure that this works let's compile our code
okay and play our game.
So welcome to both Cal guess the fallout to WordPress and continue right.
So if we typing something that is not the right length.
The hidden word is for characters long.
Try again.
And of course then it's saying you have lost because when we have a look at our code that is exactly
what's happening we're going through is it's equal to the hit word word is it the same thing.
Nope.
Otherwise we're going to do this.
We're going to check whether the lengths of the same.
And if you've not typed incorrectly.
Eventually at this point in time you've lost the game.
So there we go.
That's how far we're going to take this at the moment.
Now can you see a potential issue here if we start building up nested if statements is going to be very
complex to handle.
Now we'll get to how we can flatten that out in a few lectures time.
But for now we've just introduced another magic number.
So you've got a number hard coded into our text.
This is going to cause us issue.
We've got one at the top here and now one down here.
And I think now would be a great time to introduce you to how you can format your strings to include
proper data in there instead of hard coded numbers.
How did you guys get on please show your work over in the discussions and I'll see you will in the next
lecture.